## Difference between Senior and Lead Software Engineer

<table style="width: 100.0%;" role="grid" resolved=""><colgroup><col style="width: 11.8737%;"><col style="width: 37.9959%;"><col style="width: 50.0434%;"></colgroup><thead><tr role="row"><th data-highlight-colour="blue" data-column="0" tabindex="0" scope="col" role="columnheader" aria-disabled="false" unselectable="on" aria-sort="none" aria-label=": No sort applied, activate to apply an ascending sort" style="user-select: none;"><div><br></div></th><th data-highlight-colour="blue" data-column="1" tabindex="0" scope="col" role="columnheader" aria-disabled="false" unselectable="on" aria-sort="ascending" aria-label="Senior Software Engineer: Ascending sort applied, activate to apply a descending sort" style="user-select: none;"><div>Senior Software Engineer</div></th><th data-highlight-colour="blue" data-column="2" tabindex="0" scope="col" role="columnheader" aria-disabled="false" unselectable="on" aria-sort="none" aria-label="Lead Software Engineer: No sort applied, activate to apply an ascending sort" style="user-select: none;"><div >Lead Software Engineer</div></th></tr></thead><tbody aria-live="polite" aria-relevant="all"><tr role="row"><th  data-highlight-colour="blue">Understanding of a software development process</th><td><ul><li>Follows and understands the benefits and pitfalls of the defined software development process.</li><li>May propose improvements to the process.</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Has practical experience on projects on different SDLC phases.</li><li>Understands and can build from scratch development process (Scrum, Kanban, Waterfall).</li></ul></td></tr><tr role="row"><th colspan="1" data-highlight-colour="blue">Leadership</th><td colspan="1"><ul><li>May not realize their leadership potential.</li></ul></td><td colspan="1"><p>Alternatives exist:</p><ul><li>Team leadership. Current focus is a team leadership, clarifying requirements, remove impediments and blockers, spend time of managerial activities.</li><li>Tech. leadership. Main focus is system design, responsible for complex solution or component design, implementation and delivery. Knows and controls non-functional requirements.</li></ul></td></tr><tr role="row"><th colspan="1" data-highlight-colour="blue">Contribution to extra-activities</th><td colspan="1"><ul><li>May switch focus from project to extra-activity and back without impact to project delivery.</li><li>May participate in interview.</li><li>May participate in mentoring program as a mentor for a junior.</li><li>May coordinate a unit-wide activity such as mentoring group.</li><li>May participate in technical interviews.</li></ul></td><td colspan="1"><ul><li>May participate in interview.</li><li>May coordinate a unit-wide activity such as mentoring group.</li><li>Recognized mentor. Alternatively, curator and role model for project newcomers.</li><li>Certified technical interviewer. Alternatively, interviews for project.</li><li>Participation in pre-sales.</li><li>Speaker on internal or external conferences. Alternatively, speaker on a local Tech Talks or Miniqs.</li></ul></td></tr><tr role="row"><th data-highlight-colour="blue">Self-management</th><td><ul><li>Most likely knows and has favorite time management techniques.</li><li>Has an approach to planning a day and a week.</li><li>Often initiates meetings, discussions and sends meeting invites.</li><li>Writes meeting follow ups with action items.</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Self-managed. Applies day planning techniques.</li><li>Decision-maker. Should be able to explain criteria for the decision, cost of a mistake, alternative options considered.</li><li>Able to organize effective group discussions, meetings planning (create agenda, prepare MFU, monitor action items execution), retrospectives.</li></ul></td></tr><tr role="row"><th data-highlight-colour="blue">Technical Excellence</th><td><ul><li>Some skills are on advanced or expert level.</li><li>Recognized as a technology/process/practice expert on a project.</li><li>Follows, advocates and defines engineering practices.</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Expert level for at least one skill from the primary stack. Alternatively, several advanced level skills.</li><li>Recognized as a technology/process/practice expert on a project. Gathers people around self.</li><li>Follows, advocates and defines engineering practices. Ensures that team follows.</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Leadership
There might be two roles with different focus:
* #### Team Leader of an engineering team.

    Current focus is a team leadership, clarifying requirements, remove blockers, spend time on managerial activities.

    He/She might not have the deep knowledge in the skills required on the project and might have another key developer(s) who cover some of the technology areas and help with technical risks and architecture.

    However, it's required to have the picture of the whole project itself, know the architecture and potential technical and non-technical risks.

* #### Technical Leader / Key Developer on the team of engineers.

    Main focus is system design, responsible for complex solution / component design, implementation and delivery. Knows and control non-functional requirements. Communicates with on-site / peer architects and mentoring all other team members to improve their skills in his expert area.

    Responsible for identifying and mitigating technical risks and accountable the successful delivery of solution on production environments.
