## Fetch vs XmlHttpRequest
`fetch()` unlike `xmlHttpRequest()`:
* Uses promise
* Is simple to use
* Full access to featires (verb, headers ...)
* Utilities for parsing formats, so the content can easily be parsed as JSON, text, blob ...

## `async / await`
`async/await` allows you to write asynchronous code based on Promises, in a manner that allows you to reuse your synchronous code writing skills. By doing this, we can write code that is far cleaner and more understandable than our chained promise example.

> In short: Async and Await is just a Syntactic Sugar For Promises. [More](https://medium.com/@matt.mcalister93/async-and-await-syntactic-sugar-for-promises-in-javascript-aee7ace36d14)

An `async` function always returns a Promise. The Promise resolves to value that is returned by the function.

Asynchronous functions can use the `await` operator in their bodies. The `await` operator can be attached to any variable. If that variable is not a Promise, the value returned for the `await` operator is the same as the variable.

But if the variable is a Promise, then the execution of the function is paused untill it is clear whether the Promise is going to be resolved or rejected.

If the Promise resolves, the value of the `await` operator is the resolved value of Promise, and if the variable is a promise that gets rejected, the `await` operator throws an error in the body of the `async` function which we can catch with `try/catch` constructs.

`for-await-of` automatically awaits any Promises generated by this iterator. `for-await-of` requires a runtime polyfill called the `asyncIterator` to work correctly.

```javascript
async function* numbers() {
  let index = 1;
  while(true) {
    yield index;
    index = await external(index);
    if (index > 10) {
      break;
    }
  }
}

async function gilad() {
  for await (const num of numbers()) {
    console.log(num);
  }
}
```

__[`Promise` vs. `async/await` article](https://hackernoon.com/6-reasons-why-javascripts-async-await-blows-promises-away-tutorial-c7ec10518dd9)__
